>> Will Sentance: And
now we come to object-oriented JavaScript.
The new hard parts of OOP.
We are used to seeing in hard parts,
a whole bunch of functional
programming features.
This has been the burgeoning paradigm for
the last few years, but
nevertheless still remains a core
way of thinking about code,
object-oriented programming.
It makes up still a major part
of the react design pattern.
And in today's session, we are gonna dive
deep in completeness into how object or
into programming works.
We're gonna lay out the number of
ways by which we can produce objects
with their associated functionality
all bundled up nicely.
We're gonna dive deep on call and apply.
We're gonna see how
the prototype chain plays out.
And the hardest part of all,
which is gonna take a bunch of time,
maybe even a few minutes,
a bunch of time, subclassing.
And we're gonna do that both in a,
what's called factory function style.
We're gonna do it in
a new keyword style and
we're gonna do it with the new ES
2015 classical, or class style.
But it all begins with,
us asking ourselves,
why do we have a paradigm,
a means of organizing code at all?
It comes down to this.
When you're writing out thousands of
lines of code, one after another,
you do not want to just have do this,
then procedurally do this next command,
then do this next command,
then do this next command.
You wanna have some way of organizing it,
such that,
well what do we do when we run code?
We're essentially saving data,
think a quiz game, as you're gonna
build out a quiz game today.
Think of a quiz game, we're saving
data for the quiz, say user score,
a user's name,
multiple users each with scores and names.
Multiple quiz questions and then,
we're applying functionality to that data.
We're saying, okay, here's,
I don't know, user one who's playing,
user two who's playing.
They both need to have the ability for
their score to be increased.
But we've also got some
quiz question data.
The description of the quiz question,
or the actual question itself.
That quiz question data, that is, the
words of the quiz question, we don't wanna
be applying functionality saying
increase score to the quiz question.
But really all we're doing when we run
code or write code is saving data.
Quiz questions, scores of players,
names of players, and
then applying functionality to use
that data, or change that data, or
render, that is display that data.
So that's all we're doing,
wouldn't it be nice if we could
combine up the appropriate data.
Let's say, it's a user's data named Phil,
score four in our quiz game,
with all of the functionality
that we could ever want to
have applied to that data.
So we don't have to go and
hunt, go run off to try and
find what functionality's
applicable to this data.
Don't worry, it's gonna be bundled
together somehow, kind of packaged up.
And for our quiz question,
we don't have to go and hunt after our
display quiz question functionality.
Don't panic, it's all bundled
up there with the quiz question.
It makes our life incredibly easy.
So what is a paradigm?
A paradigm means any approach
to organizing our code that,
well, let's have a look.
That hopefully makes it easy to
add features and functionality.
That hopefully, if I want my users
in my app to now not only be able to
increase their score, but
decrease their score.
Hopefully, it's easy for
me to have all my users the ability
to have their score decreased.
But also, easy for us and
other developers to reason about.
Not do this and do this and do this, and
it's 40,000 lines of code one
after another, but instead.
This is a good organizing method,
or organizing approach.
We have our data that represents,
in this app, users.
And then attached to it, the functionality
that applies to those users.
We have our data that
represents a quiz question.
And attached to it, the functionality
that says, display that quiz question.
No hunting for it, it's right there.
And hopefully, by the way,
this organizing approach does not
come at the cost of performance.
Doesn't say, well, it's made our lives
easier, but man, now it's really slow.
Or now it's wasting a ton of memory.
Yes, it's more organized, but
there's a ton of memory wasted.
That's what we hope.
A paradigm is an organizing structure for
our code that hopefully
maintains these things.
We need to organize our code
as it gets more complex so
it's not just an endless
series of commands.
So the question is,
how might we, I turn to Michael.
How might we Michael, bundle up our data?
Say, you use a score name with
the appropriate functionality that
applies to that data.
How might we bundle
those up would you say?
>> Speaker 2: I usually would bind them
up with different separate classes and-
>> Will Sentance: True, but
in a very, very simple manner,
we might just bind them in the-
>> Speaker 2: Object.
>> Will Sentance: In an object, beautiful.
Just put them in an object.